Q&A:

1. Which file should I use for importing the whole database?

WINDOWS:

Simply start tool.bat and follow instructions on screen.

UNIX:

Open tool.sh in a text editor and enter your MySQL connection
information (username, password, database names) near the top
of the file.
Then simply start tool.sh and follow the instructions on screen.
You can do this by typing
./tool.sh
or
bash tool.sh
in the directory where the file resides.
Note that this script needs to be run with bash.
If you don't have bash installed, you can use import.sh (see below).


2. What else am I able to do with this tool?

You may also update your current database with our new 
changesets. You just need to know on which revision
your database is. You can check this by opening database
and taking a look on table called db_version. Column
changeset will tell you, which is the last imported changeset
in your database. Remember that revision number and changeset
numbers are not same!

You can also backup your current database (world as well as
character and logon database). You can also dump 1 or more
tables you want.


3. What is import.bat/import.sh for then?

There is file called import.php is PHP script for importing
and checking database via PHP. It can import fresh database,
print info about your current database and also update
database with new changesets. Import.bat and import.sh are
just system based tools for easy handling of import.php
(no need to run any web browser).


4. How can I use import.bat/import.sh then?

First be sure you have PHP installed on your computer.

If you are on WINDOWS, copy/paste your php.exe from php
directory to /Windows/System32/ directory. After this,
open config.php in notepad (or any other text editor)
and enter your MySQL information like username, password and
world database name.
Then you can run import.bat and follow the instructions on screen.

If you are on UNIX, simply open config.php with a text editor and
enter your MySQL connection information (username, password and 
the name of your world database).
Then run import.sh and follow the instructions on screen.
You can do this by typing
./import.sh
or
sh import.sh
in the directory where the file resides.
This script should run in any POSIX compatible shell.


5. Does WhyDB have also character and logon database files on SVN?

No, we don't have them there, you can find latest structures there:
https://arcemu.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/arcemu/trunk/sql/
Files are called xxxx_logon_structure.sql and
xxxx_character_structure.sql .
